doc: openthread: add documentation regarding Link Metrics and CSL (#4732)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/openthread/cli/README.rst

         - LQI: 220 (Exponential Moving Average)
         - Margin: 60 (dB) (Exponential Moving Average)
         - RSSI: -40 (dBm) (Exponential Moving Average)

   #. Send a Link Metrics Management Request to configure a Forward Tracking Series:

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot linkmetrics mgmt fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7 forward 1 dra pqmr
         Done
         Received Link Metrics Management Response from: fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7
         Status: Success

   #. Send an MLE Link Probe message to the peer:

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot linkmetrics probe fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7 1 10
         Done

   #. Perform a Link Metrics query (Forward Tracking Series):

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot linkmetrics query fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7 forward 1
         Done
         Received Link Metrics Report from: fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7
         - PDU Counter: 13 (Count/Summation)
         - LQI: 212 (Exponential Moving Average)
         - Margin: 60 (dB) (Exponential Moving Average)
         - RSSI: -40 (dBm) (Exponential Moving Average)

>    #. Send a Link Metrics Management Request to register an Enhanced-ACK Based Probing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Send a Link Metrics Management Request to register an Enhanced ACK-based Probing:
```

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot linkmetrics mgmt fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7 enhanced-ack register qm
         Done
         Received Link Metrics Management Response from: fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7
         Status: Success

>    #. Send a Link Metrics Management Request to clear an Enhanced-ACK Based Probing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Send a Link Metrics Management Request to clear an Enhanced ACK-based Probing:
```

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot linkmetrics mgmt fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7 enhanced-ack clear
         Done
         Received Link Metrics Management Response from: fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7
         Status: Success

> #. Verify the CSL functionality:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Verify the Coordinated Sampled Listening (CSL) functionality:
```

>    a. Send an ICMPv6 Echo Request from the leader kit to the router kit link local address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a. Send an ICMPv6 Echo Request from the leader kit to link-local address of the router kit:
```

Reviewer: In the previous step, ``fe80:...`` was the link-local address of the leader kit.
Not sure if I got that wrong in the explanation or if there is some other confusion?

Reviewer 2: Yes, the intention now is to send a ping from the leader to the router (now SSED).

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot ping fe80:0:0:0:acbd:53bf:1461:a861
         16 bytes from fe80:0:0:0:acbd:53bf:1461:a861: icmp_seq=2 hlim=64 time=2494ms
         1 packets transmitted, 1 packets received. Packet loss = 0.0%. Round-trip min/a
         Done

>       As we can observe, there is a long latency on the reply of up to 3000 ms due to the indirect transmission mechanism based on data polling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Observe that there is a long latency on the reply of up to 3000 ms.
      This is due to the indirect transmission mechanism based on data polling.
```

>    #. Enable CSL Receiver on the router kit (now SED) by configuring a CSL Period of 0.5 seconds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Enable a CSL Receiver on the router kit (now SED) by configuring a CSL period of 0.5 seconds:
```

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot csl period 3125
         Done

>    #. Send an ICMPv6 Echo Request from the leader kit to the router kit link local address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Send an ICMPv6 Echo Request from the leader kit to the link-local address of the router kit:
```

   .. code-block:: console
      uart:~$ ot ping fe80:0:0:0:acbd:53bf:1461:a861
      uart:~$ W: TX_STARTED event will be triggered without delay
      16 bytes from fe80:0:0:0:acbd:53bf:1461:a861: icmp_seq=3 hlim=64 time=421ms
      1 packets transmitted, 1 packets received. Packet loss = 0.0%. Round-trip min/a
      Done

>       Now the reply latency is reduced to a value below 500 ms since the transmission from the leader is performed via CSL, based on the CSL Information Elements sent by the CSL Receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Observe that the reply latency is reduced to a value below 500 ms.
      The reduction occurs because the transmission from the leader is performed via CSL, based on the CSL Information Elements sent by the CSL Receiver.
```

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot linkmetrics query fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7 forward 1
         Done
         Received Link Metrics Report from: fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7
         - PDU Counter: 13 (Count/Summation)
         - LQI: 212 (Exponential Moving Average)
         - Margin: 60 (dB) (Exponential Moving Average)
         - RSSI: -40 (dBm) (Exponential Moving Average)

   #. Send a Link Metrics Management Request to register an Enhanced ACK-based Probing:

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot linkmetrics mgmt fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7 enhanced-ack register qm
         Done
         Received Link Metrics Management Response from: fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7
         Status: Success

   #. Send a Link Metrics Management Request to clear an Enhanced ACK-based Probing:

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot linkmetrics mgmt fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7 enhanced-ack clear
         Done
         Received Link Metrics Management Response from: fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7
         Status: Success

#. Verify the Coordinated Sampled Listening (CSL) functionality:

>    a. On the router kit, list the IPv6 addresses (with ``ot ipaddr``) and note down the link-local address.

Reviewer 2: Actually we already listed the router kit addresses at the beginning. This section can be rephrased.

>       You must use this address when sending commands from the leader kit to the router kit.

Reviewer 2: This is was true for Link Metrics, but not for ping. Can be elided.

   .. note::
        The DUA registration with the Backbone Router is not yet supported.

#. Link Metrics

>    * Perform a Link Metrics query (Single Probe).

Reviewer 2: We should indicate in which device to apply the commands. For this purpose, we can modify the configuration above to have a SED instead of a Router, apart from the Leader.

>       ``ot linkmetrics query \<ipaddr\> single [pqmr]``

Reviewer 2: I would avoid including OT CLI help here. We already have a link to OpenThread CLI Reference in this page.

   .. note::
        The DUA registration with the Backbone Router is not yet supported.

#. On the leader kit, list IPv6 addresses and pick the Link-Local address for the Link Metrics commands on the second kit

   .. code-block:: console

      uart:~$ ot ipaddr
      fd00:7d03:7d03:7d03:84c9:572d:be24:cbe
      fdde:ad00:beef:0:0:ff:fe00:fc10
      fdde:ad00:beef:0:0:ff:fe00:fc38
      fdde:ad00:beef:0:0:ff:fe00:fc00
      fdde:ad00:beef:0:0:ff:fe00:7000
      fdde:ad00:beef:0:a318:bf4f:b9c6:5f7d
      fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7

#. On the router kit:

>    * Change to SED mode

Reviewer 2: This is not allowed once the device is a Router. I should be configured as SED from the beginning.

>    * Change to SED mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Reattach as SED
```

#. Note down the link-local address.
   You must use this address when running Link Metrics commands on the router kit.

   The following steps use the address ``fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7``.
   Replace it with the link-local address of your leader kit in all commands.

#. Run the following commands on the router kit:

   a. Reattach the router kit as SED:

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot mode -
         Done

   #. Perform a Link Metrics query (Single Probe):

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot linkmetrics query fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7 single qmr
         Done
         Received Link Metrics Report from: fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7
         - LQI: 220 (Exponential Moving Average)
         - Margin: 60 (dB) (Exponential Moving Average)
         - RSSI: -40 (dBm) (Exponential Moving Average)

   #. Send a Link Metrics Management Request to configure a Forward Tracking Series:

      .. code-block:: console

         uart:~$ ot linkmetrics mgmt fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7 forward 1 dra pqmr
         Done
         Received Link Metrics Management Response from: fe80:0:0:0:10b1:93ea:c0ee:eeb7
         Status: Success

>    #. Send an MLE Link Probe message to the peer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Send an MLE Link Probe message to the leader kit:
```
Is that correct?

Author: I would leave it as it is or optionally changed to _parent_ to emphasize "peer to peer" or "child to parent" connection.

Reviewer: I prefer to use only one term to refer to something, but if it's clear to the user, let's leave as is.
